# L2: Requirements for Perception

Very roughly speaking, any driving tasks can be broken down into two components. 
image46
First, we need to understand what's happening around us and where we are. ​So, we need to perceive our surroundings. 
​Secondly, we need to make a driving decision. ​For example, should we accelerate or stop before a pedestrian about to enter the roadway? 

​Any driving task requires some kind of OEDR, that is, ​we need some way of identifying objects around us, ​recognizing events happening near us, ​and then responding to it. 

​Recall that the classification of automated systems that we ​discussed had OEDR as one of the criteria. ​In other words, if we want to build a self-driving car, ​we need to be able to perform OEDR.

​Let's go further and analyze a crucial part of OEDR perception. 

Perception

We want to be able to make sense of ​the environment around us and the way we're moving within it.

​In particular, for any agent or element on the road, ​we need to 
    first identify what it is; ​a car, a cyclist, a bus, etc. 
    ​And second, we want to understand its motion; ​has it been moving in a certain way that can tell us what it will do next.

​As humans, we're really good at understanding patterns. ​However, it's still difficult for computer systems to be able to recognize ​these same patterns around us as quickly as we do.

We can point to a car going straight and say, ​"Oh, it will be in this position in some amount of time in the future." ​This is what makes driving possible for us.

​So, this ability of predicting ​the trajectory of a moving object is really important to perception.

​If we can do this prediction correctly, ​we can make informed decisions.

​For example, if I know what the car in front of me is going to do next, ​then I can decide what to do next in such a way that both of our goals are met.

​Let's discuss the various elements we need to ​be able to identify for the perception task. ​First, we need to identify static elements. ​These are elements like roads and lane markings, ​things that segregate regions on the roads like zebra crossings, ​and important messages such as school up ahead. ​These are all on the road area. ​Then there are off-road elements like curbs that ​define the boundaries within which we can drive. ​There are the on-road traffic signals that periodically ​change and signal whether you are allowed to move forward, ​or left, or right, ​or just stay stopped. ​Then there are all kinds of road signs like those telling you the speed limit, ​indicating direction, whether there is a hospital coming up, ​or a school coming up, and so on. 
​Again, these are off-road elements. ​Finally, there are road obstructions. ​So, the orange cones that tell you construction is ​happening or that there is roadblock edge and so on. ​Also, these are on road elements. ​Second, let's discuss the dynamic elements that we need to identify for perception. ​These are the elements whose motion we need to ​predict to make informed driving decisions. ​We need to identify other vehicles on the road, ​so four wheelers like trucks, buses, cars, ​and so on, and then we also need to identify and predict the motion of two wheelers, ​like motorcycles, bicycles, and so forth. 
​These are all moving systems with more freedom than four wheelers, ​and so they are harder to predict. ​Finally, we should also be able to identify and ​predict the motion of pedestrians around us. ​How pedestrians behave is very different from ​vehicles as pedestrians are known to be much more ​erratic than vehicles in their motion because of ​the inherent freedom that humans have in the way they move. ​Another crucial goal for perception is ego localization. ​We need to be able to estimate where we are and how we are moving at any point in time. ​Knowing our position and how we are moving in the environment ​is crucial to making informed and safe driving decisions. ​The data used for ego motion estimation comes from GPS, IMU, ​and odometry sensors, and needs to be ​combined together to generate a coherent picture of our position. 
​The second and third courses of this specialization ​will dive deeply into these essential perception tasks, ​starting with ego localization in course two, ​and followed by on and off road object detection and tracking in course three. ​Now that we've discussed the main goals for perception, ​let's conclude this discussion by going over why perception is also a difficult problem. ​First, performing robust perception is a huge challenge. ​Detection and segmentation can be approached with modern machine learning methods, ​but there is much ongoing research to improve ​the reliability and performance to achieve human level capability. ​Access to large datasets is critical to this effort. ​With more training data, ​our segmentation and detection models perform better and more robustly, ​but collecting and labeling data for all possible vehicle types, ​weather conditions, and road surfaces is a very expensive and time-consuming process. ​Second, perception is not immune to censor uncertainty. 
​There are many times that visibility can be challenging, ​or GPS measurements get corrupted, ​or LIDAR and Radar returns are noisy in terms of their position value. ​Every subsystem that relies on ​these sensors must take uncertain measurements into account. ​This is why it is absolutely crucial to design subsystems that can ​accommodate sensor uncertainty and corrupted measurements in every perception task. ​Then there are effects such as occlusion and reflection in camera or LIDAR data. ​These can confuse perception methods with ambiguous information that ​is challenging to resolve into accurate estimates of object locations. ​There are also effects such as drastic illumination changes and lens flare, ​or GPS outages and tunnels which makes ​some sensor data completely unusable or unavailable. ​Perception methods need multiple redundant sources of ​information to overcome sensor data loss. 
​Finally, there's weather and precipitation that can ​adversely affect the quality of input data from sensors. ​So, it is crucial to have ​at least some sensors that are immune to different weather conditions, ​for example radar. ​Let's summarize. ​In this video, we briefly went through the main tasks for perception. ​The task of detecting and assessing various types of ​static and dynamic objects and agents in the environment, ​and the task of making sense of how the ego vehicle is moving through the environment. ​Finally, we concluded with a discussion of why perception is a hard problem. ​That's it for this video. 